So one of the concerns that I
hear from people whenever I talk,
how do you do it Paul,
how do you keep coming up with content?
You're always coming up with new things
to talk about, how do you manage it?
I can never think about what to write.
I totally get that, and the reason
that you're struggling is because
you're sitting down and going,
what shall I write about today, right?
And you know what happens if
anybody puts you on the spot, and
say something, you blank,
you can't think of anything.
So you need to avoid that.
So really, ultimately, it's about just
building up an ongoing list of topics.
And a lot of that is just about you're
surrounded by ideas all the time.
You just need to pay attention and
write it down so
that when you sit down to write an email,
you've already got ideas there.
So, pay attention to the conversations
you're having with clients.
They'll ask you questions.
That's an email, right?
You'll get stuck on a project and
frustrated on a project.
That's an email.
Keep an eye out for subjects being
discussed on the influencer sites,
the sites that your audience
are hanging out at.
Those are all potential emails.
Every question that's asked on a forum,
every search that's done
on Google related to a particular subject,
every mention on social media.
Those are all email topics.
Think about the work you're
doing at that particular time.
That's all content, right?
I've been working at the moment
on doing usability testing.
That's a subject.
And I had a particularly bad experience
recently where I did usability testing,
and we were benchmarking my version
against the existing version and
my version performed worse than
the existing version, right?
I actually wrote an email
saying how to deal
with [LAUGH] when your
usability test fails.
That's a good subject.
And people wrote to me afterwards going,
I'm so glad it's not just me.
[LAUGH] Or
I really appreciated your honesty there.
It's great.
Write about services you offer, not
directly, but write around those services.
Don't say this is a list of
the services I offer, but
write about topics relating
to those services.
Pretty obvious really.
And write about the value
of what you want to offer.
So if you want more work,
I don't know, doing usability testing,
then you write about the value
of usability testing.
It's not rocket science.
Also pay attention to what annoys you.
This is really good,
cuz it will annoy other people as well.
So for example, I really get
annoyed by cookie notifications.
They are something that really
grinds my gears, logins as well,
that's another pet subject of
mine which really irritates me.
So I'm always writing about these
things cuz they annoying me.
And then keep an eye out for
good examples, right?
You live in a world full of examples,
you're interacting with it every day.
So me as a user experience person,
every app I use, every website I visit,
they're all potential good
examples that I can refer to.
If you work in performance,
then you're gonna see good and
bad examples of well performing or
poorly performing sites.
So that's all material you can draw upon.
And if all else fails,
research what people are Googling.
If you type in user experience or
performance and
see what comes up afterwards,
then it's great.
Well, actually if you hit return, so
you type in performance hit return,
get the results up,
actually it's a block of questions
related to that topic, right,
in the Google results.
Those are all emails you can send out.
And then if you're struggling with topics
then on any particular topic there are so
many different ways you
can approach that topic.
You can write reviews
of different products.
You can ask questions.
You can do how tos.
You can share industry news.
You can talk about controversial subjects.
You can create checklists and
cheat sheets.
You can create case studies and so
on, and so on, and so on, and so on.
You really don't need to run out of ideas.
The trick is not starting
from a blank sheet,
not sitting down to write
an email without existing ideas.
And so the way that I resolve this is by
starting to keep a list of possible ideas.
Now I use Notion.
Where in Notion I have basically
ideas split out as to whether
they're a course or an email or a webinar
or a social media update or whatever else.
And then I jot down the title of
the subject I wanna cover and maybe a few
bullet points on it and just leave it at
that until it comes time to next write.
And every time you have an idea, you just
drop it into the list along with a few
bullet points to help you get started
when it comes time to write it.
And so
once in a while I will also sit down and
just brainstorm a load of ideas
to keep the list topped up.
But I don't do that at the moment
I'm gonna sit down and
write because that's when
your mind goes blank.
So are there any questions around coming
up with ideas or writing emails or
any struggles that you have
around that kind of thing?
Is it something you've ever tried doing?
>> Outside of selling like
to not talk about that,
is there anything else
you would say to avoid?
>> Not really ,I think a lot of
people are afraid of expressing their
opinions because someone will
tell them they're wrong,
which I totally understand and
totally get.
And if that is you, I would say you
don't need to be afraid of that
because people will tell you you're
wrong even if you say nothing, right?
I've received emails before saying,
why haven't you spoken out on so and
so an issue on.
Okay, I hadn't even said anything and
I'm in trouble.
So some degrees you can't win that.
But if you are worried,
if you're one of those people that,
I don't wanna put my head above the
parapet because people might criticize me.
Then my advice is stick to talking about
your personal experience because nobody
can say that that was wrong.
That was what happened to
you in your situation.
Or focus on quoting other people,
so and so says, or
I noticed this, so those kinds of things.
But no, I think, really, you shouldn't
be afraid to express your opinion.
One of the things I'm about to come onto
is finding your own voice as you write.
And I think that it's okay to recognize
not everybody's gonna agree or
like what you say, and that's all right.
Also you don't need everybody to like you
just need enough people to keep you in
business, right?
But yeah, that is tricky one.
Yeah, have got a question from chatroom?
>> Have you tried different
processes like drafting in batches?
>> Yes, I have.
And that might work for
you, it didn't work for me.
The reason it didn't work for
me is because, I've said it once,
I will say it again, I have
the attention span of a small child.
So siting and batching a whole load
of emails never really worked for me.
I'm very much a person that gets
enthusiastic in the moment about
something, right?
Something has particularly hit me, and so
I wanna write an email about it there and
then, okay?
So actually,
although I've got these backlog of ideas,
I only use those if I really get stuck.
Most of the time,
something's popped into my head and
I wanna write about it straight away.
So doing a whole load I
would find a bit tedious.
But there's no reason why not, and in
actual fact that's probably a good way of
doing it, have a whole load
lined up ready to release.
I always try and be one ahead of myself in
case I get ill or something like that, and
so I've always got something to go out.
But no, I don't batch that much.